



Transport Layer Security                                    M. U. Sardar
Internet-Draft                                                TU Dresden
Intended status: Informational                               5 July 2025
Expires: 6 January 2026


                     Extensions to TLS FATT Process
                 draft-usama-tls-fatt-extension-latest

Abstract

   While the TLS FATT process marks a historic change in achieving high
   cryptographic assurances by tightly integrating formal methods in the
   working group process, the current FATT process has some practical
   limitations.  Given a relatively smaller formal methods community,
   and a steep learning curve as well as very low consideration of
   usability in the existing security analysis tools, this document
   proposes some solutions to make the FATT process sustainable.  This
   document applies only to non-trivial extensions of TLS, which require
   formal analysis.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at https://muhammad-
   usama-sardar.github.io/tls-fatt-extension/draft-usama-tls-fatt-
   extension.html.  Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-usama-tls-fatt-extension/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Transport Layer
   Security Working Group mailing list (mailto:tls@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/tls/.  Subscribe
   at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/tls/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/muhammad-usama-sardar/tls-fatt-extension.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 6 January 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Responsibilities of Authors
     2.1.  Threat Model
     2.2.  Informal Security Goals
     2.3.  Protocol Diagram
   3.  Responsibilities of Verifier
   4.  Definition of Attack
   5.  Conventions and Definitions
   6.  Security Considerations
   7.  IANA Considerations
   8.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The FATT process does not outline the division of responsibility
   between the authors and the one doing the formal analysis (the latter
   is hereafter referred to as the "verifier").  This document aims to
   fill this gap without putting an extensive burden on either party.
   This document also outlines the corresponding changes in the way
   Internet-Drafts are typically written.

   An argument is often presented by the authors that an Internet-Draft
   is written for the implementers.  With the FATT process, this
   argument is no longer valid.  For the Internet-Draft to be useful for
   the formal analysis, it should contain three main items, namely a
   threat model, informal security goals, and a protocol diagram
   highlighting the proposed changes to the standard TLS protocol.  Each
   one of these is summarized in the following sections.

2.  Responsibilities of Authors

2.1.  Threat Model

   A threat model outlines the assumptions and known weaknesses of the
   proposed protocol.  The threat model could be the classical Dolev-Yao
   adversary.  In addition, it could specify any keys which are assumed
   to be available to the adversary.

2.2.  Informal Security Goals

   Knowing what you want is the first step toward achieving it.  Hence,
   informal security goals such as integrity, authentication, freshness,
   etc. should be outlined in the Internet-Draft.  These goals could be
   part of the security considerations or the Appendix.  If the informal
   security goals are not spelled out in the Internet-Draft, it is safe
   to assume that the goals are still unclear to the authors.  In such a
   case, the Internet-Draft should not be considered as ready for
   adoption.

2.3.  Protocol Diagram

   A protocol diagram highlights the proposed changes compared to the
   standard TLS protocol.

3.  Responsibilities of Verifier

   When the authors declare the version as ready for formal analysis,
   the verifier takes the above inputs, performs the formal analysis,
   and brings the results back to the authors and the working group.

4.  Definition of Attack

   Any possible ambiguity is to considered as an attack.  The authors
   are, therefore, encouraged to be as precise as possible.

5.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

6.  Security Considerations

   The whole document is about security considerations.

7.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Muhammad Usama Sardar
   TU Dresden
   Email: muhammad_usama.sardar@tu-dresden.de
